11-15-2025 Saturday AWS Class

Today's class will be using the working Terraform Resource instead of AWS Console and setting up the following:
- Target Groups 
- Load Balancer - ELB
- Auto Scaling Group - ASG

Before class, I tried to set up Target Group and Load Balancer using Terraform Registry information and inputting my resource information.  Today's class will show how much I comprehend and have correct.

How to "Commit Out"
Highlight the code and either go up to edit and click toggle line comment or control(+)/.


In class, learned to use terraform to build out form resource code from previous classes up to EC2: 
Learn the following and built out:
Modified Security Groups
SG for Webserver
SG for Load Balancer
Launch template
Load balancer and health check
Target Group
Auto Scaling Group and Scaling Policy
Modified output to show load balancer url

“Application load balancer” http and https.  Used http and SSH load balancer to direct public ip address to private subnet template instances.

In this class, I also comment out the EC2 resource code and argument since we used the launch template so that the asg can create duplicate EC2 instances should traffic increase and meet the criteria that was set in the resource code argument.

Target Group was created to direct the traffic to the instance.  

Only problem that I needed assistance on was the creation of the launch template.  The user_data file needed to be set as filebase64.  Upon making that change.  Error code resolved.

Additional errors were triggered due to other simple mistakes of missing =  signs after “tags” that later was discovered with the help of a classmate.

Another error indicated that the AMI used was incorrect.  Reviewed the AMI in AWS console and provided in launch template resource code argument.  Discovered that argument is image.id not AMI

Conclusion
The resource codes ran in terraform successfully upon setting parameters taught in class today.
When accessing the link Load Balancer URL, the load balancer worked showing the different ip addresses for each launch templates created in each AZ.

Aaron showed how he used data.tf to set availability zones.  I was unsuccessful including this resource and will learn that later by asking learning group teammates.  For now it has been commented out.

Teardown:
Terraform destroy and confirmed the termination occurred in AWS console.
